hi
it's barney from bbc good food and here
i'm going to be showing you a couple of
ways of making sorbet
first i'm going to show you a
traditional way of making a lemon sorbet
in an ice cream machine
and then i'm going to be showing you a
cheats way of making a pineapple sorbet
so first things first on to our
traditional sorbet so we need to make a
sugar syrup i'm going to take
250 milliliters water and then to that
we're going to add
250 grams of white caster sugar because
the sorbet we're making is a lemon
sorbet i'm just going to add a strip of
lemon peel
and we just want to bring that to a
simmer for about three minutes until the
sugar's dissolved and we're going to
cool that and add some lemon juice
that's had about three minutes simmering
the lemon zest is infused nicely in the
syrup we're just going to turn that off
and leave that to
cool
the syrup's cooled to room temperature
i'm just going to remove the lemon zest
and then we're just going to add 100
milliliters of lemon juice
give that a stir
and now we're ready to freeze you can
either freeze it in a tray
and then keep on turning it over that
gives you more of a kind of granita
here we've got a very basic ice cream
machine which makes about 500 ml which
is perfect for this amount
you simply pour into the ice cream
machine
add the paddle
the ice cream machine has done its stuff
and the sorbet is lovely and churned
you can see that it's all frozen and
slushy so all that's left to do
is to put it into a freezable container
just to go into there
i'm just going to cover that with film
i'm just going to pop that in the
freezer for another couple of hours
until frozen solid
or that can sit happily in the freezer
for up to a month and there you'll have
the most delicious
lemon sorbet so the next method i'm
going to show you is a cheats way of
making a fruit sorbet
i'm making a pineapple one here but you
can use any fruit you want like a juicy
red fruit like strawberries or
raspberries would be ideal
the first thing you need to do is you
need to get yourself a blender or a
smoothie maker
so then we need to add our fruit so here
we're adding the pineapple
then we need to sweeten that with some
sugar
and then it's up to you what you add but
i want to add some thai basil
some ginger
some lime zest and some lime juice
[Music]
and finally we're just going to add
about 200 milliliters of water
now you just want to puree that down so
you have like a thick
fruit sauce
so that's all nice and pureed to a
smooth thick sauce
and now it's just a matter of freezing
that until it's solid
so now we just need to cover this with a
lid
and pop that in the freezer for four
hours or overnight until it's frozen
solid
we're going to chop that into nice big
pieces and then we're going to re-blend
it again and that's going to take the
place of the ice cream machine
[Music]
now it's just a matter of blending the
ice again to break up the crystals
and turn them into a lovely smooth
sorbet
you might need to do this in batches
so on with the lid and then
this might need a bit of help with the
paddle
once that's all blended what you have
there
is a lovely sorbet consistency
so there we have two ways of making
sorbet a traditional lemon
and a cheats pineapple and thai basil